Name: Dhruv Vohra
SRN: PES1201700281

MiniProject Report

INTRODUCTION:
    An Intal, short for Integers of arbitrary length are string of decimal digits (0-9) to store really large numbers that
    cannot be stored/operated on by using the int or long int data type in C.
    By having decimal digits stored in string format, the length of a integer is no longer an issue which opens up the possibility
    of very large number operations.
    For example:
        - Factorial of 20 is the max value that can be calculated in C by using a long long int variable, however with the intal 
          representation, factorial of even 100 was calculated efficiently.
        - Another application includes big data processing, like addition, subtraction, multiplication of the big data and numbers 
          generated in various data driven organizations, like the stock market, social media orgs, etc.

APPROACH:
    Following is my approach for every function implemented in the intal library I created as part of this project:

    1. Addition of two intals (intal_add): 
        The approach for intal_add function was to first apply padding on the shorter intal string, such that both intals would be of the
        same length (l). Followed by allocating a result string (initalized with all zeros) of length l+1 as that is the max length of the 
        resultant string.
        Then traversing the two intals from right to left and adding the digits at every iteration along with the carry from the previous iteration.
        the result of every iteration is divided by 10 to get the final value of that iteration digit in result string and is modded with 10 to 
        generate the carry. Finally the the resultant string is stripped of any leading zeros and returned.  
    
    2. Comparison of two intals (intal_compare)
        The approach for intal_compare was to first compare the two intals in terms of length, if one is greater than the other then straight
        away it is also of greater value. If the two lengths are same then iteratively comparing every digit of the two intals from left to right.

    3. Difference of two intals (intal_diff)
        The approach for intal_diff was similar to that of intal_add, padding the shorter intal string as that makes the iterative operation digit-wise
        much easier. The two intals are traversed from right to left and the borrow is added directly as 10 to the current iteration making the carry as -1
        for the next iteration.
        Finally the resultant string is stripped of any leading zeros and returned.

    4. Product of two intals (intal_multiply)
        The approach for intal_multiply is to multiply one digit of one intal with every digit of the other intal and in every iteration,
        adding the current digit wise multiplication result to the appropriate position where the previously multiplied result is stored.
        The appropriate position is obtained by using a horizontal shift and vertical shift variables.
        An additional memory of m x n is allocated initially as that is the max length a multiplication result can have, the result is later stripped of zeros
        and returned.

    5. Mod of two intals (intal_mod)
        The intal_mod function involved multiplying the divior by 2 until it becomes greater than the divident, once it does, the divisor is subtracted
        from the divident and the same process continues until the divident becomes smaller than the original divison upon which again the difference 
        between the original divisor and the divident gives the final result. The implementation takes O(logn) time.

    6. First intal to the power second intal (intal_pow)
        The intal_pow function takes a recurrsive divide and conquer approach to find subproblems (smaller power computations) to eventually obtain the result.


    7. GCD of two intals (intal_gcd)
        The intal_gcd function is implemented of the euclidian approach to find the gcd of two numbers, the intal_gcd inturn used the intal_mod and intal_diff 
        functions for the computation.

    8. nth fibonacci number, n is an intal (intal_fibonacci)
        The implementation to find the nth fibonacci number is the iterative approach to keep adding the previous two numbers to obtain the next number in the 
        series, the numbers generated in between are not stored anywhere as that are not required once used to compute the a particular next fibonacci number.

    9. Factorial of an intal (intal_factorial)
        The intal_factorial function takes the recursive approach to find the factorial.

    10. binomial coefficient of nCk, result returned is intal (intal_bincoeff)
        binomial coefficients are calculated iteratively using the pascal rule, for C(n,k) an additional space of O(k) is used to store the coefficients.
        To compute C(1000,900) instead the value of C(1000,100) is calculated and returned which is the same and takes much lesser computation.

    11. index of max intal in an unsorted array (intal_max)
        The intal_max function is the brute force implementation of iterating through an unsorted array and comparing the current intal with the current max.

    12. index of min intal in an unsorted array (intal_min)
        The intal_min function is the brute force implementation of iterating through an unsorted array and comparing the current intal with the current min.

    13. index of given intal in an unsorted array (intal_search)
        The intal_search function is the brute force implementation of iterating through an unsorted array and comparing the current intal with the search key intal.

    14. sorting an array of intals in O(nlogn) time (intal_sort)
        The intal_sort function is the merge sort implementation of sorting an intal array. It is not in place and takes O(n) extra space but the worst case
        also takes O(nlogn) time which is better than quicksort which make take O(n^2) in the worst case. All extra memory allocated is taken care of and free is called
        to not allow any memory leak. 

    15. searching for the given intal value in a sorted arrar in O(logn) time (intal_binsearch)
        intal_binsearch is the usual binary search implementation, which assumes that a sorted array is passed and finds the given key, if exists in O(logn) time.

    16. Dynamic problem solution to the coin row problem in an intal array (coin_row_problem)
        coin_row_problem is implemented using a DP approach and a recurrsive solution.
        The recurrance for the problem is :
                        F(n) = max{ f(n-2)+Cn , F(n-1)}, where F(n) is the function to find max value uptil n and Cn is the coin value at index n.


FUTURE WORK:
    Some of the functionalities to add in future to this library would be:
        - Handling negative integers for all of the above functions
        - Implementing a division function
        - Implementing trignometric, logarithmic, exponential functions
        - Implementing functions that could help with calculus of intal values

Name: Dhruv Vohra
SRN:  PES1201700281